feat: add `stats/base/ndarray/dnanstdevwd` (#10395)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dnanstdevwd/README.md

    <br>
</div> -->

<!-- </equation> -->

The use of the term `n-1` is commonly referred to as Bessel's correction. Note, however, that applying Bessel's correction can increase the mean squared error between the sample standard deviation and population standard deviation. Depending on the characteristics of the population distribution, other correction factors (e.g., `n-1.5`, `n+1`, etc) can yield better estimators.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var dnanstdevwd = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dnanstdevwd' );
```

#### dnanstdevwd( arrays )

Computes the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a one-dimensional double-precision floating-point ndarray, ignoring `NaN` values and using Welford's algorithm.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var xbuf = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, -2.0, NaN, 2.0 ] );

> var x = new ndarray( opts.dtype, xbuf, [ 4 ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );

Reviewer: The usage example should construct `x` with `Float64Vector` rather than `Float64Array` + `@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor`, matching every other package in this namespace (cf. `dnanstdevch`):

```javascript
var Float64Vector = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/vector/float64' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var x = new Float64Vector( [ 1.0, -2.0, NaN, 2.0 ] );
var correction = scalar2ndarray( 1.0, opts );

var v = dnanstdevwd( [ x, correction ] );
// returns ~2.0817
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

var correction = scalar2ndarray( 1.0, opts );

var v = dnanstdevwd( [ x, correction ] );
// returns ~2.0817
```

The function has the following parameters:

> -   **arrays**: array-like object containing two elements: a one-dimensional input ndarray and a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying the degrees of freedom adjustment. Providing a non-zero degrees of freedom adjustment has the effect of adjusting the divisor during the calculation of the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] according to `N-c` where `N` is the number of non-NaN elements in the input ndarray and `c` corresponds to the provided degrees of freedom adjustment. When computing the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a population, setting this parameter to `0` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data constituting an entire population). When computing the corrected sample [standard deviation][standard-deviation], setting this parameter to `1` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data sampled from a larger population; this is commonly referred to as Bessel's correction).

Reviewer: The parameter description should follow the nested-list format used elsewhere in this namespace (e.g., `dnanstdev`/`dnanstdevch`):

```suggestion
-   **arrays**: array-like object containing the following ndarrays:

    -   a one-dimensional input ndarray.
    -   a zero-dimensional ndarray specifying the degrees of freedom adjustment. Providing a non-zero degrees of freedom adjustment has the effect of adjusting the divisor during the calculation of the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] according to `N-c` where `N` is the number of non-NaN elements in the input ndarray and `c` corresponds to the provided degrees of freedom adjustment. When computing the [standard deviation][standard-deviation] of a population, setting this parameter to `0` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data constituting an entire population). When computing the corrected sample [standard deviation][standard-deviation], setting this parameter to `1` is the standard choice (i.e., the provided array contains data sampled from a larger population; this is commonly referred to as Bessel's correction).
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If provided an empty one-dimensional ndarray, the function returns `NaN`.
-   If `N - c` is less than or equal to `0` (where `N` corresponds to the number of non-NaN elements in the input ndarray and `c` corresponds to the provided degrees of freedom adjustment), the function returns `NaN`.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var uniform = require( '@stdlib/random/base/uniform' );
var filledarrayBy = require( '@stdlib/array/filled-by' );
var bernoulli = require( '@stdlib/random/base/bernoulli' );
var ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var dnanstdevwd = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dnanstdevwd' );

function rand() {
    if ( bernoulli( 0.8 ) < 1 ) {
        return NaN;
    }
    return uniform( -50.0, 50.0 );
}

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var xbuf = filledarrayBy( 10, opts.dtype, rand );

> var x = new ndarray( opts.dtype, xbuf, [ xbuf.length ], [ 1 ], 0, 'row-major' );

Reviewer: Examples should follow the current pattern: `fillBy` + `zeros`, not `filledarrayBy` + `@stdlib/ndarray/base/ctor` (see `dnanstdevch`'s README). Same change needed in `examples/index.js`.

```javascript
var uniform = require( '@stdlib/random/base/uniform' );
var bernoulli = require( '@stdlib/random/base/bernoulli' );
var fillBy = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/fill-by' );
var zeros = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/zeros' );
var scalar2ndarray = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/from-scalar' );
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var dnanstdevwd = require( '@stdlib/stats/base/ndarray/dnanstdevwd' );

function rand() {
    if ( bernoulli( 0.8 ) < 1 ) {
        return NaN;
    }
    return uniform( -50.0, 50.0 );
}

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};

var x = fillBy( zeros( [ 10 ], opts ), rand );
console.log( ndarray2array( x ) );

var correction = scalar2ndarray( 1.0, opts );
var v = dnanstdevwd( [ x, correction ] );
console.log( v );
```

---
_Generated by [Claude Code](https://claude.ai/code)_
